Routing clearly has a lot going on and
we got one more major piece that comes
up when it comes to defining routes.
Which is the fact that, if I were to
ask you right now to define a route for
like every to do item on the page,
that'd be hard to do.
At least let's see photos there's
5000 photos can you imagine
if you were like photos slash one,
photos slash two, and
more importantly you can't even guarantee,
it'll be that many items, right?
So how do we deal with that?
So dynamic routes are the next thing
I do wanna make sure that we cover.
So how does that work?
Well, the way that works is let's
go ahead and inside of display,
I'm gonna go and do the to section.
And so we'll say okay there's
a new folder call to dues, so
one of things we could certainly do is
drop to dues inside of the folder and
do index dot view and
that way it's own page.
But for the sake of practice and
showing you all different examples.
This is where we're gonna actually use
a child route in this particular case,
cuz we wanna actually be able to go,
yes, okay?
So when we're inside of
this to dues page and
we click on a link,
we only want that session to swap out.
We want the list to disappear,
we want the item to come in,
that's what we want to look for,
so that's how we're gonna design.
The way you just the way you tell nutex
that you want something that's dynamic,
and this, I think starts to become
a convention It's the square brackets.
And the square brackets whatever goes
inside is the name of the parameter that
is dynamic.
And so you can call it whatever you want,
but in this particular case, and
in a lot of cases,
it tends to be very, very cool common.
So once we get this well we can do so
let me open up a script
file block is I'm gonna first
open up an h2 element and
this is task, ID and which ID we
can use const route = used route.
And then from here, if I remember this
correctly, we should be able to actually
log out the params and this time I've
realized I had it flipped earlier.
So to make sure this works though,
don't forget because we're
actually looking to get into
the child at that point.
We do have to do a couple
of things which is one,
we need to wrap our to do
that title with a next link,
that's going to actually allow
us to jump to that page.
And so what it's gonna be it's going to
be a dynamic string whereas only slash,
all we need the to property, that's
why it's not coloring correctly, okay?
To slash display slash to dues slash,
to do ID, this is the path that we're
looking for and I'm missing this here,
there, yeah now that looks good.
Does that make sense?
That's how, as far as how I
constructed that dynamic URL, great.
Okay, so now that we have
that we need one more thing.
Which is we need to actually
display the next page, right?
This is what we talked about before,
because we want children elements to be
displayed within a specific
section of the page.
We don't want the whole thing to refresh.
So if I just wrap all this in a div,
because now we're at the page level,
okay, we go back to here, and
then let's refresh whoops.
What did I do Boolean?
A Boolean somewhere, it was here.
That doesn't make any sense at all,
there we go, much better.
And I realized this is a buggy thing that
I need to see fix let me just wrap that
there you go much better.
Okay, so now our server should be much
happier with us great we can go to dues.
Okay,great.
So now when I click on
this you will notice,
down here there it is this
is task ID basically one.
And we said we wanna swap
out the list right so
what we can really do
actually is we can say Vf I'm
gonna guess on this one paron
ID is todo I think, okay.
If it's true,
actually this is what we should do.
If it's true, we will display the subpage,
this is probably the easiest way to do it.
If there's the parameter ID on the URL,
when we're in this page
display the sub page otherwise
display the list, just like that.
So then just to give
some continuity to all of
this was a this is mine to
do you're just like that.
So if I refresh this okay, it's looking
a little ugly to me for a second so
let's just fix this wrap it with
a section give this class a title these
are all coming from Beaumont I'm
gonna look that up later.
There, you're much better.
So you see, okay, we got we got
our task ID, this is good and
if I go back to the page, there we go.
I mean, so there's some duplicate stuff
here happening but you can see here that
we're actually able to now dynamically
generate a page that has that data.
And then of course, you can go ahead and
pull whatever you wanna like,
you can filter it, etc, but
we won't need to dive into that.
So does that make sense as far as
how that dynamic query like works?
And so the key thing to remember is that
this thing that we define on the right
here, in the square brackets, It's part of
the parameters that's part of the route.
Cuz earlier remember I was trying to do
params on like the name and that was like
messing up, right because parameters the
wrong thing I was thinking of this part.
The dynamic part is where those parameters
the rest of that those are like path
matching you got to figure
that out on your own